# AlchemyAug2017ProjectIdeas

microblogging website
social media like twitter/quora
reddit.com
ecommerce website (will be heavy)
recipe sharing website (will have upvotes/downvotes for a recipe, comments and pictures, trending recipes, new recipes, categorized recipes)
livejournal (http://www.livejournal.com/)
meetup.com



Some ideas for students:
[Get in contact with some Android students, you can make a project collaboratively]
A website which helps you create another website [like wix.com]
A blogging engine
Something which solves your problems
Resume builder website [get some examples]
You can build a rails gem
Reminder website [set a reminder and forget, you just need to verify your email account]
Something like evernote
Single website which posts on all your social media accounts
Social media website for managing our course wherein students from different batches can interact

#Keep adding ideas to this by sending me pull requests

- Social network exclusively for Sports persons - players, coaches, officials, managers etc. wherein players / clubs can connect with each other, schedule / create events, publish videos / pictures, store and view scores and apply / post sports jobs. Example - playerhunter.com

- Marketplace for printers wherein consumers can send in a request to print with artwork and other specifications (e.g. posters in bulk) and printers bid for the order in real time. Consumer gets to decide which printer to go for based on best bid (low price and high turn around time, maybe?).

- A storage service that lets you create more space in your home / office. The service picks up unwanted furniture / appliances that the user may think that won't be used for a few weeks / months etc. Services picks up the material, packs and stores safely for efficient retrieval at a charge. Could involve more of offline work than online.

- A marketplace that connects companies with experienced developers to fix bugs in code. The gap exists wherein non-tech companies or companies with low budgets cannot afford to hire a full time dev. And full time devs often have spare time which could be utilized to review code and earn as well. check out pullrequest.com


- Most residents don't have time to go to public meetings or digest complicated reports regarding real estate (commercial / social) developments taken up by developers or local urban bodies. Most developers, planners and urban local bodies don’t have the resources to reach a broader and more representative audience online. Developers and urban local bodies are usually perceived in the negative sense, a formal interactive platform can help improve their image and bring value to their developments through feedback received from all stakeholders on the platform. A forum that brings together real estate developers, construction companies, residents, urban planners and municipalities at one platform to communicate around the core value unit – a real estate project can resolve the pain points.



