# Data-Tales

Hackathon

ChennaiEstate is a real estate firm based in Chennai that is involved in the property business for the past 5 years.
Since, they are in the business for so long, they have enough data of all the real estate transactions those have taken
place in the city.
They decided to venture into Analytics and have now started a division called “Chennai Estate Analytics” to give
consumers as much information as possible about housings and the real estate market in Chennai. A home is often
the largest and most expensive purchase a person makes in his or her lifetime. Ensuring real-estate owners have a
trusted way to monitor the asset is incredibly important. Hence, they have hired you as a consultant to help them
give insights and develop a model to accurately predict real estate prices.

Based on the train dataset, you will need to develop a model that accurately predicts the real estate price in Chennai.


Train.csv (7109 observations): 

The dataset contains information related to all real estate transactions that have taken place under the ChennaiEstate. The following are the details relating to the columns in the dataset:

PRT_ID – The Property Transaction ID assigned by ChennaiEstate
AREA – The property in which the real estate is located
INT_SQFT – The interior Sq. Ft of the property\
DATE_SALE – The date the property was sold
DIST_MAINROAD – The distance of the property to the main road
N_BEDROOM – The number of Bed rooms
N_BATHROOM - The number of bathrooms
N_ROOM – Total Number of Rooms
SALE_COND – The Sale Condition
Normal: Normal Sale
Abnorml: Abnormal Sale - trade, foreclosure, short sale
AdjLand: Adjoining Land Purchase
Family: Sale between family members
Partial: Home was not completed when last assessed
PARK_FACIL – Whether parking facility is available
DATE_BUILD – The date in which the property was build
BUILDTYPE – The type of building
House
Commercial
Others
UTILITY_AVAIL
AllPub: All public Utilities (E,G,W,& S)
NoSewr: Electricity, Gas, and Water (Septic Tank)
NoSeWa: Electricity and Gas Only
ELO: Electricity only
STREET
Gravel
Paved
No Access
MZZONE
A: Agriculture
C: Commercial
I: Industrial
RH: Residential High Density
RL: Residential Low Density
RM: Residential Medium Density
QS_ROOMS – The quality score assigned for rooms based on buyer reviews
QS_BATHROOM – The quality score assigned for bathroom based on buyer reviews
QS_BEDROOM – The quality score assigned for bedroom based on buyer reviews
QS_OVERALL – The Overall quality score assigned for the property
REG_FEE – The registration fee for the property
COMMIS – The Commission paid to the agent
SALES_PRICE – The total sale price of the property
 

Test.csv (2925 observations) – You will have to make predictions for the test dataset.
