# Co-Op-Real-Estate_Property_Portal
Communal co-operative Real Estate portal based on a meritocracy on an equal share basis.

One of the major problems facing small Real Estate companies or agents are the absorbent subscription fees & pay per click fees they have to pay to the media giants that gobble up all the popular property portals.
Real Estate Agents need a decentralized property portal that they can use on a equal partner basis.
For example; if a thousand agents pay the same amount of money or Bitcoins in to a pool to pay the core developers to develop, maintain & market the property portal to be on the highest rankings of all search engines it will cost them a fraction of the money it cost now. But the property portal is owned as a co-operative on a equal partner basis. So no agent ever owns more shares than the next and all expenses are divided by all co-op partners.
A push message voting system within the website and app can be developed with Red (very important issues), Orange (Medium importance) & green ( low importance) to conclude issues to the benefit of all and as fair as possible e.g. should a property listings be sorted from low to high by default for a area's search results, should agents loose meritocracy points if they abuse the system by listing fraudulent listings, not remove a property that has been sold or rented within a agreed reasonable time etc. 
Great ideas from the agents can be bumped up for possible development by partners. For example partners can submit ideas to solve a certain problem or to make the website, app or industry faster, cheaper or better in a list format where other partners can bump up the best idea until the expiry time is up then it goes automatically to development for implementation.
The more agents join as partners the cheaper the costs per agent will become to use the portal.
Currently the company with the most money can dominate the current property portals (featured listings and pay more for preferred rankings etc) since no one person owns the new portal but the whole industry, on a equal partner basis who use it.
This decentralized property portal also transfers the wealth from the few to the masses by default.
The same can be applied to a credit bureau that the agents use to check the profiles of tenants etc.
And to develop a meritocracy list for suppliers agents use like electricians, maintenance companies, bond originators and they can then be bumped up for their service, quality of work & rate them on price etc.
This method can be applied to many industries.

