# Urea-Formaldehyde-Foam-Insulation
Valuation of Real Estate considering UFFI Usage
UREA FORMALDEHYD FOAM INSULATION

Urea Formaldehyde Foam Insulation (UFFI) was a compound used in the 1960’s and 1970’s to improve the insulation quality of older homes. It was found that UFFI emitted the potentially hazardous formaldehyde gas as it decayed through time, and as a result the insulation fell out of favor with builders in the 1970s and, in fact, was permanently banned in Canada and Europe in the 1980s. Despite the ban, there remained considerable controversy concerning the health and financial risks of UFFI insulated homes – different independent studies reached conflicting conclusions about the health risks of UFFI homes, while various court cases provided no precedent for determining lost real estate value when such properties were sold without disclosure of UFFI presence.

REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS

When appraising real estate property value, James Wilcox generally uses a combination of three traditional methods plus an analytical method developed by him and his associates. The three traditional methods used are:
Replacement Value: Determine the value by estimating how much it would cost to build a similar building in a similar area.
Net Rental Value: Determine the net present value of cash flows generated by renting the property.
Market Value: Compare the property with similar properties in the area that were recently sold.
As an alternative to the standard appraisal techniques George had been experimenting with quantitative analytical methods. To support these methods, his firm built a database of real estate sales which includes available comparable features of each property. For a particular valuation request – depending on the property type, availability of data, and time constraints – George would provide appraisal reports that included a combination of traditional methods and estimates derived from his proprietary analytics. His clients put trust into his valuations as they are generally quite accurate, particularly compared to appraisals provided by his competitors.

MADERA AND ASSOCIATES’S REQUEST

Ms. Madera's client had recently purchased a residential property in the Norwood section of West Palm Beach, an area with many older homes. While her client was generally happy with the property, she had not been informed of the presence of UFFI by the previous owner, or by the owner’s real estate agent. The client was not worried about potential health risks associated with UFFI, but believed she had overpaid for the property. Ms. Madera agreed with this claim for two reasons: 1) they were aware of the lingering negative stigma associated with UFFI homes, and 2) the decrease in sales value was the only reason UFFI presence would not be disclosed by the previous owner or sales agent. While they were willing to represent the client and were confident in the case, they needed demonstrable evidence of the value lost because of the non‐disclosure.

THE ANALYSIS

James informed Madeline that he believed he could supply them with an analysis and estimated valuation, as he had a database of residential home sales in Palm Beach County – both with and without UFFI – collected over the previous decade. The client’s UFFI litigation would begin in less than two weeks, so James must get to work immediately to generate his appraisal.
